[MUSIC]
>> Welcome back to Learn to Program.TV and
course on Python.
So, in this video I'll be showing you the
both, basic syntax of creating a function.
In the past we've looked over functions
such as join, split.
And, count and so on.
And what these functions do is you have a
set amount of code within them
and you send them a parameter and it will
work out something and return the value.
Depending on what the function is depends
on what value
is return and what input you need to give
to it.
And so, we can actually create our own
functions as well.
And, they provide the exact same.
Purpose as this.
It saves you from repeating lots of code
which you don't need to anymore than once.
So if you need to call a function 20
times, say if you were creating something
which validates or checks the user input
just
you reverse device type, type of input for
example.
Then you'd be able to validate it using
one function
and have to only write the code for
validation once.
Rather than writing it each individual
time in
which you are getting input from the user.
So it saves on file space and also it
makes it considerably easier and faster
for you to code.
So, a function has to be defined and we do
that using the def keyword.
Which is def.
And after that we type in the function
name.
And the function name follows the same
conventions as the
as variable names go.
So you don't have numbers to start it, you
have numbers in it if you want to.
And you can have underscores.
You can't use other symbols, and you can
use upper and lowercase letters.
And after we have the function name, what
we
have is two brackets or parenth,
parentheses opening and closing.
And in, inside of that we have as many
parameters as we want.
And so I'll just do param1 and param2.
Now within these parameters I'll be
getting
onto more detail in the next video.
However, these prompters are defined, and
they are treated like variables.
Now, within this function I won't actually
be using prompters, I'll just be
leaving those for now, because I'll be
covering those in the next video.
However, after we have the function name
declared.
You'll, we'll have a column which we use
for all types of structural declarations,
and after that we can have, this line is
now optional, but we can have a tag line,
so if I type in, this is a tagline, and
then what we can do is, just return Hello.
And I'll get more information on the.
Return in a few minutes what function.
What we can do is if on a Mac,
you press control and enter, control and
space sorry.
You, it loads up the list of all of the
functions which were available.
Now if you scroll down to function name
and click on
it, you'll see that we have the, this is a
tagline there.
So, you can use this now, to quite simply,
just provide some information for you,
so you can see exactly what it does when
when you're looking at the actual code.
So, if you load this up, you can have
something, a sentence in there
which tells you what the actual code does,
just as sort of reminder for you.
So, after, after we have the line with the
quotes.
Where you can have as much as you want.
We can have if statements, we can have
all sorts of variables being called, and
other functions being called that are in
here.
We can do as many things as we want.
And then at the end we just need to return
the data that we have.
Set out a return.
So, here we're just returning hello, so
what I'm going to
do print, and then I'll do function, name,
and if we run
this you'll see that we get hello
outputted, which is exactly what
you'd expect to get outputted, because we
are returning the word hello.
Now, we can return variables, we can
return booleans.
So there's plenty of things that we can
return, and if I was
to return a boolean, then you'd use it
more with any if statement.
And if something is true then do
something,
if something is not true then do something
else.
For example.
So that is the main basic syntax on.
Functions, and in later videos I'll be
explaining the
purpose behind each individual part of the
actual function call.
So thank you for watching, and I will see
you soon.
[MUSIC]